---
layout: post
title: "The years 2023-2025 in books"
date:   2026-01-12 11:11:11
description: ""
tags: []
---

Books read between 2023 and 2025.

Again. Close to zero commute if we discard planes. And less of an interest in reading books in general. A trend I'll reverse in 2026.

As previously I'll rate the books from one to three stars. Three of three (3/3) stars being what I thoroughly have enjoyed and would recommend to others who are into the topic of the book or enjoy a good read in general. Giving a book one star neither states the book is bad or I do not agree with it, rather it is something I personally did not enjoy too much.

## 2023

### Project Hail Mary - Andy Weir (3/3)

Plain amazing. Made the flight from El Salvador back to Germany fly by like nothing.

### When Money Dies - Adam Fergusson (2/3)

The inflationary spiral in Austria after WW2. Often recommended in Bitcoin circles.

### Heat 2 - Michael Mann (2/3)

Had to read it as I'm a huge fan of the 1995 movie [Heat](https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0113277/).
Lots of good parts. I'm waiting for the upcoming movie.

### Elon Musk - Walter Isaacson (3/3)

Inspiring. And insane how much the contents would have to be expanded to contain what has happened in the years after the publish date.

### Fahrenheit 451 - Ray Bradbury (2/3)

Quick read on censorship.

## 2024

### Wild - Cheryl Strayed (2/3)

Back in 2014 I watched the [movie](https://www.imdb.com/title/tt2305051). Didn't realize it was based on a book back then. Good read!

### Seveneves - Neal Stephenson (2/3)

The whole story and idea is awesome. Would be a 3/3 but the beginning was quite slow and the end too boring for my taste.

The slow beginning led me to only finish the book on my third attempt. I tried to read it 2 times in the last 10 years. 

## 2025

Only one. But a great one. One of the greatest I have read.

### Musashi - Eiji Yoshikawa (3/3)
Life and deeds of swordsman Miyamoto Musashi. 

In 2021 I read about half of Taiko. Same author. Published 2 years after Musashi in 1937. Back then some suggested to do it before Musashi to be historically aligned. Taiko takes place before Musashi. I don't think this is necessary. Musashi was the superior book.

Even if one doesn't read Musashi it makes sense to look at his rules:

1. Accept everything just the way it is
2. Do not seek pleasure for its own sake
3. Do not depend on partial feelings
4. Think lightly of yourself and deeply of the world
5. Be detached from desire throughout your life
6. Do not regret what you have done
7. Never be jealous
8. Never let yourself be saddened by a separation
9. Resentment and complaint are inappropriate
10. Do not let yourself be guided by lust or love
11. In all things, have no preferences
12. Be indifferent to where you live
13. Do not pursue the taste of good food
14. Do not hold onto possessions you no longer need
15. Do not act following customary beliefs
16. Do not collect weapons or practice with weapons beyond what is useful
17. Do not fear death
18. Do not seek to possess goods or fiefs for old age
19. Respect Buddha and the gods without counting on their help
20. You may abandon your own body, but preserve your honor
21. Never stray from the Way
